echo inverted_index.txt >> .gitignore1|Calculation of prompt diphoton production cross sections at Tevatron and   LHC energies|C. Bal\'azs, E. L. Berger, P. M. Nadolsky, C.-P. Yuan|A fully differential calculation in perturbative quantum chromodynamics is presented for the production of massive photon pairs at hadron colliders. All next-to-leading order perturbative contributions from quark-antiquark, gluon-(anti)quark, and gluon-gluon subprocesses are included, as well as all-orders resummation of initial-state gluon radiation valid at next-to-next-to-leading logarithmic accuracy. The region of phase space is specified in which the calculation is most reliable. Good agreement is demonstrated with data from the Fermilab Tevatron, and predictions are made for more detailed tests with CDF and DO data. Predictions are shown for distributions of diphoton pairs produced at the energy of the Large Hadron Collider (LHC). Distributions of the diphoton pairs from the decay of a Higgs boson are contrasted with those produced from QCD processes at the LHC, showing that enhanced sensitivity to the signal can be obtained with judicious selection of events.
2|Sparsity-certifying Graph Decompositions|Ileana Streinu and Louis Theran|We describe a new algorithm, the $(k,\ell)$-pebble game with colors, and use it obtain a characterization of the family of $(k,\ell)$-sparse graphs and algorithmic solutions to a family of problems concerning tree decompositions of graphs. Special instances of sparse graphs appear in rigidity theory and have received increased attention in recent years. In particular, our colored pebbles generalize and strengthen the previous results of Lee and Streinu and give a new proof of the Tutte-Nash-Williams characterization of arboricity. We also present a new decomposition that certifies sparsity based on the $(k,\ell)$-pebble game with colors. Our work also exposes connections between pebble game algorithms and previous sparse graph algorithms by Gabow, Gabow and Westermann and Hendrickson.
3|The evolution of the Earth-Moon system based on the dark matter field   fluid model|Hongjun Pan|The evolution of Earth-Moon system is described by the dark matter field fluid model proposed in the Meeting of Division of Particle and Field 2004, American Physical Society. The current behavior of the Earth-Moon system agrees with this model very well and the general pattern of the evolution of the Moon-Earth system described by this model agrees with geological and fossil evidence. The closest distance of the Moon to Earth was about 259000 km at 4.5 billion years ago, which is far beyond the Roche's limit. The result suggests that the tidal friction may not be the primary cause for the evolution of the Earth-Moon system. The average dark matter field fluid constant derived from Earth-Moon system data is 4.39 x 10^(-22) s^(-1)m^(-1). This model predicts that the Mars's rotation is also slowing with the angular acceleration rate about -4.38 x 10^(-22) rad s^(-2).
4|A determinant of Stirling cycle numbers counts unlabeled acyclic   single-source automata|David Callan|We show that a determinant of Stirling cycle numbers counts unlabeled acyclic single-source automata. The proof involves a bijection from these automata to certain marked lattice paths and a sign-reversing involution to evaluate the determinant.
5|From dyadic $\Lambda_{\alpha}$ to $\Lambda_{\alpha}$|Wael Abu-Shammala and Alberto Torchinsky|In this paper we show how to compute the $\Lambda_{\alpha}$ norm, $\alpha\ge 0$, using the dyadic grid. This result is a consequence of the description of the Hardy spaces $H^p(R^N)$ in terms of dyadic and special atoms.
6|Bosonic characters of atomic Cooper pairs across resonance|Y. H. Pong and C. K. Law|We study the two-particle wave function of paired atoms in a Fermi gas with tunable interaction strengths controlled by Feshbach resonance. The Cooper pair wave function is examined for its bosonic characters, which is quantified by the correction of Bose enhancement factor associated with the creation and annihilation composite particle operators. An example is given for a three-dimensional uniform gas. Two definitions of Cooper pair wave function are examined. One of which is chosen to reflect the off-diagonal long range order (ODLRO). Another one corresponds to a pair projection of a BCS state. On the side with negative scattering length, we found that paired atoms described by ODLRO are more bosonic than the pair projected definition. It is also found that at $(k_F a)^{-1} \ge 1$, both definitions give similar results, where more than 90% of the atoms occupy the corresponding molecular condensates.
7|Polymer Quantum Mechanics and its Continuum Limit|Alejandro Corichi, Tatjana Vukasinac and Jose A. Zapata|A rather non-standard quantum representation of the canonical commutation relations of quantum mechanics systems, known as the polymer representation has gained some attention in recent years, due to its possible relation with Planck scale physics. In particular, this approach has been followed in a symmetric sector of loop quantum gravity known as loop quantum cosmology. Here we explore different aspects of the relation between the ordinary Schroedinger theory and the polymer description. The paper has two parts. In the first one, we derive the polymer quantum mechanics starting from the ordinary Schroedinger theory and show that the polymer description arises as an appropriate limit. In the second part we consider the continuum limit of this theory, namely, the reverse process in which one starts from the discrete theory and tries to recover back the ordinary Schroedinger quantum mechanics. We consider several examples of interest, including the harmonic oscillator, the free particle and a simple cosmological model.
8|Numerical solution of shock and ramp compression for general material   properties|Damian C. Swift|A general formulation was developed to represent material models for applications in dynamic loading. Numerical methods were devised to calculate response to shock and ramp compression, and ramp decompression, generalizing previous solutions for scalar equations of state. The numerical methods were found to be flexible and robust, and matched analytic results to a high accuracy. The basic ramp and shock solution methods were coupled to solve for composite deformation paths, such as shock-induced impacts, and shock interactions with a planar interface between different materials. These calculations capture much of the physics of typical material dynamics experiments, without requiring spatially-resolving simulations. Example calculations were made of loading histories in metals, illustrating the effects of plastic work on the temperatures induced in quasi-isentropic and shock-release experiments, and the effect of a phase transition.
9|The Spitzer c2d Survey of Large, Nearby, Insterstellar Clouds. IX. The   Serpens YSO Population As Observed With IRAC and MIPS|Paul Harvey, Bruno Merin, Tracy L. Huard, Luisa M. Rebull, Nicholas   Chapman, Neal J. Evans II, Philip C. Myers|We discuss the results from the combined IRAC and MIPS c2d Spitzer Legacy observations of the Serpens star-forming region. In particular we present a set of criteria for isolating bona fide young stellar objects, YSO's, from the extensive background contamination by extra-galactic objects. We then discuss the properties of the resulting high confidence set of YSO's. We find 235 such objects in the 0.85 deg^2 field that was covered with both IRAC and MIPS. An additional set of 51 lower confidence YSO's outside this area is identified from the MIPS data combined with 2MASS photometry. We describe two sets of results, color-color diagrams to compare our observed source properties with those of theoretical models for star/disk/envelope systems and our own modeling of the subset of our objects that appear to be star+disks. These objects exhibit a very wide range of disk properties, from many that can be fit with actively accreting disks to some with both passive disks and even possibly debris disks. We find that the luminosity function of YSO's in Serpens extends down to at least a few x .001 Lsun or lower for an assumed distance of 260 pc. The lower limit may be set by our inability to distinguish YSO's from extra-galactic sources more than by the lack of YSO's at very low luminosities. A spatial clustering analysis shows that the nominally less-evolved YSO's are more highly clustered than the later stages and that the background extra-galactic population can be fit by the same two-point correlation function as seen in other extra-galactic studies. We also present a table of matches between several previous infrared and X-ray studies of the Serpens YSO population and our Spitzer data set.
10|Partial cubes: structures, characterizations, and constructions|Sergei Ovchinnikov|Partial cubes are isometric subgraphs of hypercubes. Structures on a graph defined by means of semicubes, and Djokovi\'{c}'s and Winkler's relations play an important role in the theory of partial cubes. These structures are employed in the paper to characterize bipartite graphs and partial cubes of arbitrary dimension. New characterizations are established and new proofs of some known results are given.   The operations of Cartesian product and pasting, and expansion and contraction processes are utilized in the paper to construct new partial cubes from old ones. In particular, the isometric and lattice dimensions of finite partial cubes obtained by means of these operations are calculated.
11|Computing genus 2 Hilbert-Siegel modular forms over $\Q(\sqrt{5})$ via   the Jacquet-Langlands correspondence|Clifton Cunningham and Lassina Dembele|In this paper we present an algorithm for computing Hecke eigensystems of Hilbert-Siegel cusp forms over real quadratic fields of narrow class number one. We give some illustrative examples using the quadratic field $\Q(\sqrt{5})$. In those examples, we identify Hilbert-Siegel eigenforms that are possible lifts from Hilbert eigenforms.
12|Distribution of integral Fourier Coefficients of a Modular Form of Half   Integral Weight Modulo Primes|Dohoon Choi|Recently, Bruinier and Ono classified cusp forms $f(z) := \sum_{n=0}^{\infty} a_f(n)q ^n \in S_{\lambda+1/2}(\Gamma_0(N),\chi)\cap \mathbb{Z}[[q]]$ that does not satisfy a certain distribution property for modulo odd primes $p$. In this paper, using Rankin-Cohen Bracket, we extend this result to modular forms of half integral weight for primes $p \geq 5$. As applications of our main theorem we derive distribution properties, for modulo primes $p\geq5$, of traces of singular moduli and Hurwitz class number. We also study an analogue of Newman's conjecture for overpartitions.
13|$p$-adic Limit of Weakly Holomorphic Modular Forms of Half Integral   Weight|Dohoon Choi and YoungJu Choie|Serre obtained the p-adic limit of the integral Fourier coefficient of modular forms on $SL_2(\mathbb{Z})$ for $p=2,3,5,7$. In this paper, we extend the result of Serre to weakly holomorphic modular forms of half integral weight on $\Gamma_{0}(4N)$ for $N=1,2,4$. A proof is based on linear relations among Fourier coefficients of modular forms of half integral weight. As applications we obtain congruences of Borcherds exponents, congruences of quotient of Eisentein series and congruences of values of $L$-functions at a certain point are also studied. Furthermore, the congruences of the Fourier coefficients of Siegel modular forms on Maass Space are obtained using Ikeda lifting.
14|Iterated integral and the loop product|Koichi Fujii|In this article we discuss a relation between the string topology and differential forms based on the theory of Chen's iterated integrals and the cyclic bar complex.
15|Fermionic superstring loop amplitudes in the pure spinor formalism|Christian Stahn|The pure spinor formulation of the ten-dimensional superstring leads to manifestly supersymmetric loop amplitudes, expressed as integrals in pure spinor superspace. This paper explores different methods to evaluate these integrals and then uses them to calculate the kinematic factors of the one-loop and two-loop massless four-point amplitudes involving two and four Ramond states.
16|Lifetime of doubly charmed baryons|Chao-Hsi Chang, Tong Li, Xue-Qian Li and Yu-Ming Wang|In this work, we evaluate the lifetimes of the doubly charmed baryons $\Xi_{cc}^{+}$, $\Xi_{cc}^{++}$ and $\Omega_{cc}^{+}$. We carefully calculate the non-spectator contributions at the quark level where the Cabibbo-suppressed diagrams are also included. The hadronic matrix elements are evaluated in the simple non-relativistic harmonic oscillator model. Our numerical results are generally consistent with that obtained by other authors who used the diquark model. However, all the theoretical predictions on the lifetimes are one order larger than the upper limit set by the recent SELEX measurement. This discrepancy would be clarified by the future experiment, if more accurate experiment still confirms the value of the SELEX collaboration, there must be some unknown mechanism to be explored.
17|Spectroscopic Observations of the Intermediate Polar EX Hydrae in   Quiescence|Nceba Mhlahlo, David H. Buckley, Vikram S. Dhillon, Steven B. Potter,   Brian Warner and Patric A. Woudt|Results from spectroscopic observations of the Intermediate Polar (IP) EX Hya in quiescence during 1991 and 2001 are presented. Spin-modulated radial velocities consistent with an outer disc origin were detected for the first time in an IP. The spin pulsation was modulated with velocities near ~500-600 km/s. These velocities are consistent with those of material circulating at the outer edge of the accretion disc, suggesting corotation of the accretion curtain with material near the Roche lobe radius. Furthermore, spin Doppler tomograms have revealed evidence of the accretion curtain emission extending from velocities of ~500 km/s to ~1000 km/s. These findings have confirmed the theoretical model predictions of King & Wynn (1999), Belle et al. (2002) and Norton et al. (2004) for EX Hya, which predict large accretion curtains that extend to a distance close to the Roche lobe radius in this system. Evidence for overflow stream of material falling onto the magnetosphere was observed, confirming the result of Belle et al. (2005) that disc overflow in EX Hya is present during quiescence as well as outburst. It appears that the hbeta and hgamma spin radial velocities originated from the rotation of the funnel at the outer disc edge, while those of halpha were produced due to the flow of material along the field lines far from the white dwarf (narrow component) and close to the white dwarf (broad-base component), in agreement with the accretion curtain model.
18|In quest of a generalized Callias index theorem|Andreas Gustavsson|We give a prescription for how to compute the Callias index, using as regulator an exponential function. We find agreement with old results in all odd dimensions. We show that the problem of computing the dimension of the moduli space of self-dual strings can be formulated as an index problem in even-dimensional (loop-)space. We think that the regulator used in this Letter can be applied to this index problem.
19|Approximation for extinction probability of the contact process based on   the Gr\"obner basis|Norio Konno|In this note we give a new method for getting a series of approximations for the extinction probability of the one-dimensional contact process by using the Gr\"obner basis.
20|Measurement of the Hadronic Form Factor in D0 --> K- e+ nue Decays|The BABAR Collaboration, B. Aubert, et al|The shape of the hadronic form factor f+(q2) in the decay D0 --> K- e+ nue has been measured in a model independent analysis and compared with theoretical calculations. We use 75 fb(-1) of data recorded by the BABAR detector at the PEPII electron-positron collider. The corresponding decay branching fraction, relative to the decay D0 --> K- pi+, has also been measured to be RD = BR(D0 --> K- e+ nue)/BR(D0 --> K- pi+) = 0.927 +/- 0.007 +/- 0.012. From these results, and using the present world average value for BR(D0 --> K- pi+), the normalization of the form factor at q2=0 is determined to be f+(0)=0.727 +/- 0.007 +/- 0.005 +/- 0.007 where the uncertainties are statistical, systematic, and from external inputs, respectively.
21|Molecular Synchronization Waves in Arrays of Allosterically Regulated   Enzymes|Vanessa Casagrande, Yuichi Togashi, Alexander S. Mikhailov|Spatiotemporal pattern formation in a product-activated enzymic reaction at high enzyme concentrations is investigated. Stochastic simulations show that catalytic turnover cycles of individual enzymes can become coherent and that complex wave patterns of molecular synchronization can develop. The analysis based on the mean-field approximation indicates that the observed patterns result from the presence of Hopf and wave bifurcations in the considered system.
22|Stochastic Lie group integrators|Simon J.A. Malham and Anke Wiese|We present Lie group integrators for nonlinear stochastic differential equations with non-commutative vector fields whose solution evolves on a smooth finite dimensional manifold. Given a Lie group action that generates transport along the manifold, we pull back the stochastic flow on the manifold to the Lie group via the action, and subsequently pull back the flow to the corresponding Lie algebra via the exponential map. We construct an approximation to the stochastic flow in the Lie algebra via closed operations and then push back to the Lie group and then to the manifold, thus ensuring our approximation lies in the manifold. We call such schemes stochastic Munthe-Kaas methods after their deterministic counterparts. We also present stochastic Lie group integration schemes based on Castell--Gaines methods. These involve using an underlying ordinary differential integrator to approximate the flow generated by a truncated stochastic exponential Lie series. They become stochastic Lie group integrator schemes if we use Munthe-Kaas methods as the underlying ordinary differential integrator. Further, we show that some Castell--Gaines methods are uniformly more accurate than the corresponding stochastic Taylor schemes. Lastly we demonstrate our methods by simulating the dynamics of a free rigid body such as a satellite and an autonomous underwater vehicle both perturbed by two independent multiplicative stochastic noise processes.
23|ALMA as the ideal probe of the solar chromosphere|M. A. Loukitcheva, S. K. Solanki and S. White|The very nature of the solar chromosphere, its structuring and dynamics, remains far from being properly understood, in spite of intensive research. Here we point out the potential of chromospheric observations at millimeter wavelengths to resolve this long-standing problem. Computations carried out with a sophisticated dynamic model of the solar chromosphere due to Carlsson and Stein demonstrate that millimeter emission is extremely sensitive to dynamic processes in the chromosphere and the appropriate wavelengths to look for dynamic signatures are in the range 0.8-5.0 mm. The model also suggests that high resolution observations at mm wavelengths, as will be provided by ALMA, will have the unique property of reacting to both the hot and the cool gas, and thus will have the potential of distinguishing between rival models of the solar atmosphere. Thus, initial results obtained from the observations of the quiet Sun at 3.5 mm with the BIMA array (resolution of 12 arcsec) reveal significant oscillations with amplitudes of 50-150 K and frequencies of 1.5-8 mHz with a tendency toward short-period oscillations in internetwork and longer periods in network regions. However higher spatial resolution, such as that provided by ALMA, is required for a clean separation between the features within the solar atmosphere and for an adequate comparison with the output of the comprehensive dynamic simulations.
24|Formation of quasi-solitons in transverse confined ferromagnetic film   media|A.A. Serga, M. Kostylev, and B. Hillebrands|The formation of quasi-2D spin-wave waveforms in longitudinally magnetized stripes of ferrimagnetic film was observed by using time- and space-resolved Brillouin light scattering technique. In the linear regime it was found that the confinement decreases the amplitude of dynamic magnetization near the lateral stripe edges. Thus, the so-called effective dipolar pinning of dynamic magnetization takes place at the edges.   In the nonlinear regime a new stable spin wave packet propagating along a waveguide structure, for which both transversal instability and interaction with the side walls of the waveguide are important was observed. The experiments and a numerical simulation of the pulse evolution show that the shape of the formed waveforms and their behavior are strongly influenced by the confinement.
25|Spectroscopic Properties of Polarons in Strongly Correlated Systems by   Exact Diagrammatic Monte Carlo Method|A. S. Mishchenko (1 and 2) and N. Nagaosa (1 and 3) ((1) CREST, Japan   Science and Technology Agency, (2) Russian Research Centre ``Kurchatov   Institute'', (3) The University of Tokyo)|We present recent advances in understanding of the ground and excited states of the electron-phonon coupled systems obtained by novel methods of Diagrammatic Monte Carlo and Stochastic Optimization, which enable the approximation-free calculation of Matsubara Green function in imaginary times and perform unbiased analytic continuation to real frequencies. We present exact numeric results on the ground state properties, Lehmann spectral function and optical conductivity of different strongly correlated systems: Frohlich polaron, Rashba-Pekar exciton-polaron, pseudo Jahn-Teller polaron, exciton, and interacting with phonons hole in the t-J model.
26|Placeholder Substructures II: Meta-Fractals, Made of Box-Kites, Fill   Infinite-Dimensional Skies|Robert P. C. de Marrais|Zero-divisors (ZDs) derived by Cayley-Dickson Process (CDP) from N-dimensional hypercomplex numbers (N a power of 2, at least 4) can represent singularities and, as N approaches infinite, fractals -- and thereby,scale-free networks. Any integer greater than 8 and not a power of 2 generates a meta-fractal or "Sky" when it is interpreted as the "strut constant" (S) of an ensemble of octahedral vertex figures called "Box-Kites" (the fundamental building blocks of ZDs). Remarkably simple bit-manipulation rules or "recipes" provide tools for transforming one fractal genus into others within the context of Wolfram's Class 4 complexity.
27|Filling-Factor-Dependent Magnetophonon Resonance in Graphene|M. O. Goerbig, J.-N. Fuchs, K. Kechedzhi, Vladimir I. Fal'ko|We describe a peculiar fine structure acquired by the in-plane optical phonon at the Gamma-point in graphene when it is brought into resonance with one of the inter-Landau-level transitions in this material. The effect is most pronounced when this lattice mode (associated with the G-band in graphene Raman spectrum) is in resonance with inter-Landau-level transitions 0 -> (+,1) and (-,1) -> 0, at a magnetic field B_0 ~ 30 T. It can be used to measure the strength of the electron-phonon coupling directly, and its filling-factor dependence can be used experimentally to detect circularly polarized lattice modes.
28|Pfaffians, hafnians and products of real linear functionals|P\'eter E. Frenkel|We prove pfaffian and hafnian versions of Lieb's inequalities on determinants and permanents of positive semi-definite matrices. We use the hafnian inequality to improve the lower bound of R\'ev\'esz and Sarantopoulos on the norm of a product of linear functionals on a real Euclidean space (this subject is sometimes called the `real linear polarization constant' problem).
29|Understanding the Flavor Symmetry Breaking and Nucleon Flavor-Spin   Structure within Chiral Quark Model|Zhan Shu, Xiao-Lin Chen and Wei-Zhen Deng|In $\XQM$, a quark can emit Goldstone bosons. The flavor symmetry breaking in the Goldstone boson emission process is used to intepret the nucleon flavor-spin structure. In this paper, we study the inner structure of constituent quarks implied in $\XQM$ caused by the Goldstone boson emission process in nucleon. From a simplified model Hamiltonian derived from $\XQM$, the intrinsic wave functions of constituent quarks are determined. Then the obtained transition probabilities of the emission of Goldstone boson from a quark can give a reasonable interpretation to the flavor symmetry breaking in nucleon flavor-spin structure.
30|Tuning correlation effects with electron-phonon interactions|J.P.Hague and N.d'Ambrumenil|We investigate the effect of tuning the phonon energy on the correlation effects in models of electron-phonon interactions using DMFT. In the regime where itinerant electrons, instantaneous electron-phonon driven correlations and static distortions compete on similar energy scales, we find several interesting results including (1) A crossover from band to Mott behavior in the spectral function, leading to hybrid band/Mott features in the spectral function for phonon frequencies slightly larger than the band width. (2) Since the optical conductivity depends sensitively on the form of the spectral function, we show that such a regime should be observable through the low frequency form of the optical conductivity. (3) The resistivity has a double kondo peak arrangement
31|Crystal channeling of LHC forward protons with preserved distribution in   phase space|V. M. Biryukov (Serpukhov, IHEP)|We show that crystal can trap a broad (x, x', y, y', E) distribution of particles and channel it preserved with a high precision. This sampled-and-hold distribution can be steered by a bent crystal for analysis downstream. In simulations for the 7 TeV Large Hadron Collider, a crystal adapted to the accelerator lattice traps 90% of diffractively scattered protons emerging from the interaction point with a divergence 100 times the critical angle. We set the criterion for crystal adaptation improving efficiency ~100-fold. Proton angles are preserved in crystal transmission with accuracy down to 0.1 microrad. This makes feasible a crystal application for measuring very forward protons at the LHC.
32|Probing non-standard neutrino interactions with supernova neutrinos|A. Esteban-Pretel, R. Tom\`as and J. W. F. Valle|We analyze the possibility of probing non-standard neutrino interactions (NSI, for short) through the detection of neutrinos produced in a future galactic supernova (SN).We consider the effect of NSI on the neutrino propagation through the SN envelope within a three-neutrino framework, paying special attention to the inclusion of NSI-induced resonant conversions, which may take place in the most deleptonised inner layers. We study the possibility of detecting NSI effects in a Megaton water Cherenkov detector, either through modulation effects in the $\bar\nu_e$ spectrum due to (i) the passage of shock waves through the SN envelope, (ii) the time dependence of the electron fraction and (iii) the Earth matter effects; or, finally, through the possible detectability of the neutronization $\nu_e$ burst. We find that the $\bar\nu_e$ spectrum can exhibit dramatic features due to the internal NSI-induced resonant conversion. This occurs for non-universal NSI strengths of a few %, and for very small flavor-changing NSI above a few$\times 10^{-5}$.
33|Convergence of the discrete dipole approximation. I. Theoretical   analysis|Maxim A. Yurkin, Valeri P. Maltsev, Alfons G. Hoekstra|We performed a rigorous theoretical convergence analysis of the discrete dipole approximation (DDA). We prove that errors in any measured quantity are bounded by a sum of a linear and quadratic term in the size of a dipole d, when the latter is in the range of DDA applicability. Moreover, the linear term is significantly smaller for cubically than for non-cubically shaped scatterers. Therefore, for small d errors for cubically shaped particles are much smaller than for non-cubically shaped. The relative importance of the linear term decreases with increasing size, hence convergence of DDA for large enough scatterers is quadratic in the common range of d. Extensive numerical simulations were carried out for a wide range of d. Finally we discuss a number of new developments in DDA and their consequences for convergence.
34|Origin of adaptive mutants: a quantum measurement?|Vasily Ogryzko|This is a supplement to the paper arXiv:q-bio/0701050, containing the text of correspondence sent to Nature in 1990.
35|Convergence of the discrete dipole approximation. II. An extrapolation   technique to increase the accuracy|Maxim A. Yurkin, Valeri P. Maltsev, Alfons G. Hoekstra|We propose an extrapolation technique that allows accuracy improvement of the discrete dipole approximation computations. The performance of this technique was studied empirically based on extensive simulations for 5 test cases using many different discretizations. The quality of the extrapolation improves with refining discretization reaching extraordinary performance especially for cubically shaped particles. A two order of magnitude decrease of error was demonstrated. We also propose estimates of the extrapolation error, which were proven to be reliable. Finally we propose a simple method to directly separate shape and discretization errors and illustrated this for one test case.
36|A remark on the number of steady states in a multiple futile cycle|Liming Wang and Eduardo D. Sontag|The multisite phosphorylation-dephosphorylation cycle is a motif repeatedly used in cell signaling. This motif itself can generate a variety of dynamic behaviors like bistability and ultrasensitivity without direct positive feedbacks. In this paper, we study the number of positive steady states of a general multisite phosphorylation-dephosphorylation cycle, and how the number of positive steady states varies by changing the biological parameters. We show analytically that (1) for some parameter ranges, there are at least n+1 (if n is even) or n (if n is odd) steady states; (2) there never are more than 2n-1 steady states (in particular, this implies that for n=2, including single levels of MAPK cascades, there are at most three steady states); (3) for parameters near the standard Michaelis-Menten quasi-steady state conditions, there are at most n+1 steady states; and (4) for parameters far from the standard Michaelis-Menten quasi-steady state conditions, there is at most one steady state.
37|The discrete dipole approximation for simulation of light scattering by   particles much larger than the wavelength|Maxim A. Yurkin, Valeri P. Maltsev, Alfons G. Hoekstra|In this manuscript we investigate the capabilities of the Discrete Dipole Approximation (DDA) to simulate scattering from particles that are much larger than the wavelength of the incident light, and describe an optimized publicly available DDA computer program that processes the large number of dipoles required for such simulations. Numerical simulations of light scattering by spheres with size parameters x up to 160 and 40 for refractive index m=1.05 and 2 respectively are presented and compared with exact results of the Mie theory. Errors of both integral and angle-resolved scattering quantities generally increase with m and show no systematic dependence on x. Computational times increase steeply with both x and m, reaching values of more than 2 weeks on a cluster of 64 processors. The main distinctive feature of the computer program is the ability to parallelize a single DDA simulation over a cluster of computers, which allows it to simulate light scattering by very large particles, like the ones that are considered in this manuscript. Current limitations and possible ways for improvement are discussed.
38|The discrete dipole approximation: an overview and recent developments|Maxim A. Yurkin, Alfons G. Hoekstra|We present a review of the discrete dipole approximation (DDA), which is a general method to simulate light scattering by arbitrarily shaped particles. We put the method in historical context and discuss recent developments, taking the viewpoint of a general framework based on the integral equations for the electric field. We review both the theory of the DDA and its numerical aspects, the latter being of critical importance for any practical application of the method. Finally, the position of the DDA among other methods of light scattering simulation is shown and possible future developments are discussed.
39|Scalar radius of the pion and zeros in the form factor|Jose A. Oller and Luis Roca|The quadratic pion scalar radius, \la r^2\ra^\pi_s, plays an important role for present precise determinations of \pi\pi scattering. Recently, Yndur\'ain, using an Omn\`es representation of the null isospin(I) non-strange pion scalar form factor, obtains \la r^2\ra^\pi_s=0.75\pm 0.07 fm^2. This value is larger than the one calculated by solving the corresponding Muskhelishvili-Omn\`es equations, \la r^2\ra^\pi_s=0.61\pm 0.04 fm^2. A large discrepancy between both values, given the precision, then results. We reanalyze Yndur\'ain's method and show that by imposing continuity of the resulting pion scalar form factor under tiny changes in the input \pi\pi phase shifts, a zero in the form factor for some S-wave I=0 T-matrices is then required. Once this is accounted for, the resulting value is \la r^2\ra_s^\pi=0.65\pm 0.05 fm^2. The main source of error in our determination is present experimental uncertainties in low energy S-wave I=0 \pi\pi phase shifts. Another important contribution to our error is the not yet settled asymptotic behaviour of the phase of the scalar form factor from QCD.
40|Multilinear function series in conditionally free probability with   amalgamation|Mihai Popa|As in the cases of freeness and monotonic independence, the notion of conditional freeness is meaningful when complex-valued states are replaced by positive conditional expectations. In this framework, the paper presents several positivity results, a version of the central limit theorem and an analogue of the conditionally free R-transform constructed by means of multilinear function series.
41|Quantum Group of Isometries in Classical and Noncommutative Geometry|Debashish Goswami|We formulate a quantum generalization of the notion of the group of Riemannian isometries for a compact Riemannian manifold, by introducing a natural notion of smooth and isometric action by a compact quantum group on a classical or noncommutative manifold described by spectral triples, and then proving the existence of a universal object (called the quantum isometry group) in the category of compact quantum groups acting smoothly and isometrically on a given (possibly noncommutative) manifold satisfying certain regularity assumptions. In fact, we identify the quantum isometry group with the universal object in a bigger category, namely the category of `quantum families of smooth isometries', defined along the line of Woronowicz and Soltan. We also construct a spectral triple on the Hilbert space of forms on a noncommutative manifold which is equivariant with respect to a natural unitary representation of the quantum isometry group. We give explicit description of quantum isometry groups of commutative and noncommutative tori, and in this context, obtain the quantum double torus defined in \cite{hajac} as the universal quantum group of holomorphic isometries of the noncommutative torus.
42|General System theory, Like-Quantum Semantics and Fuzzy Sets|Ignazio Licata|It is outlined the possibility to extend the quantum formalism in relation to the requirements of the general systems theory. It can be done by using a quantum semantics arising from the deep logical structure of quantum theory. It is so possible taking into account the logical openness relationship between observer and system. We are going to show how considering the truth-values of quantum propositions within the context of the fuzzy sets is here more useful for systemics . In conclusion we propose an example of formal quantum coherence.
43|Nonequilibrium entropy limiters in lattice Boltzmann methods|R.A. Brownlee, A.N. Gorban, J. Levesley|We construct a system of nonequilibrium entropy limiters for the lattice Boltzmann methods (LBM). These limiters erase spurious oscillations without blurring of shocks, and do not affect smooth solutions. In general, they do the same work for LBM as flux limiters do for finite differences, finite volumes and finite elements methods, but for LBM the main idea behind the construction of nonequilibrium entropy limiter schemes is to transform a field of a scalar quantity - nonequilibrium entropy. There are two families of limiters: (i) based on restriction of nonequilibrium entropy (entropy "trimming") and (ii) based on filtering of nonequilibrium entropy (entropy filtering). The physical properties of LBM provide some additional benefits: the control of entropy production and accurate estimate of introduced artificial dissipation are possible. The constructed limiters are tested on classical numerical examples: 1D athermal shock tubes with an initial density ratio 1:2 and the 2D lid-driven cavity for Reynolds numbers Re between 2000 and 7500 on a coarse 100*100 grid. All limiter constructions are applicable for both entropic and non-entropic quasiequilibria.
44|Astrophysical gyrokinetics: kinetic and fluid turbulent cascades in   magnetized weakly collisional plasmas|A. A. Schekochihin (Oxford), S. C. Cowley (Culham), W. Dorland   (Maryland), G. W. Hammett (Princeton), G. G. Howes (Iowa), E. Quataert   (Berkeley), T. Tatsuno (Maryland)|We present a theoretical framework for plasma turbulence in astrophysical plasmas (solar wind, interstellar medium, galaxy clusters, accretion disks). The key assumptions are that the turbulence is anisotropic with respect to the mean magnetic field and frequencies are low compared to the ion cyclotron frequency. The energy injected at the outer scale scale has to be converted into heat, which ultimately cannot be done without collisions. A KINETIC CASCADE develops that brings the energy to collisional scales both in space and velocity. Its nature depends on the physics of plasma fluctuations. In each of the physically distinct scale ranges, the kinetic problem is systematically reduced to a more tractable set of equations. In the "inertial range" above the ion gyroscale, the kinetic cascade splits into a cascade of Alfvenic fluctuations, which are governed by the RMHD equations at both the collisional and collisionless scales, and a passive cascade of compressive fluctuations, which obey a linear kinetic equation along the moving field lines associated with the Alfvenic component. In the "dissipation range" between the ion and electron gyroscales, there are again two cascades: the kinetic-Alfven-wave (KAW) cascade governed by two fluid-like Electron RMHD equations and a passive phase-space cascade of ion entropy fluctuations. The latter cascade brings the energy of the inertial-range fluctuations that was damped by collisionless wave-particle interaction at the ion gyroscale to collisional scales in the phase space and leads to ion heating. The KAW energy is similarly damped at the electron gyroscale and converted into electron heat. Kolmogorov-style scaling relations are derived for these cascades. Astrophysical and space-physical applications are discussed in detail.
45|Evolution of solitary waves and undular bores in shallow-water flows   over a gradual slope with bottom friction|G.A. El, R.H.J. Grimshaw, A.M. Kamchatnov|This paper considers the propagation of shallow-water solitary and nonlinear periodic waves over a gradual slope with bottom friction in the framework of a variable-coefficient Korteweg-de Vries equation. We use the Whitham averaging method, using a recent development of this theory for perturbed integrable equations. This general approach enables us not only to improve known results on the adiabatic evolution of isolated solitary waves and periodic wave trains in the presence of variable topography and bottom friction, modeled by the Chezy law, but also importantly, to study the effects of these factors on the propagation of undular bores, which are essentially unsteady in the system under consideration. In particular, it is shown that the combined action of variable topography and bottom friction generally imposes certain global restrictions on the undular bore propagation so that the evolution of the leading solitary wave can be substantially different from that of an isolated solitary wave with the same initial amplitude. This non-local effect is due to nonlinear wave interactions within the undular bore and can lead to an additional solitary wave amplitude growth, which cannot be predicted in the framework of the traditional adiabatic approach to the propagation of solitary waves in slowly varying media.
46|A limit relation for entropy and channel capacity per unit cost|I. Csiszar, F. Hiai and D. Petz|In a quantum mechanical model, Diosi, Feldmann and Kosloff arrived at a conjecture stating that the limit of the entropy of certain mixtures is the relative entropy as system size goes to infinity. The conjecture is proven in this paper for density matrices. The first proof is analytic and uses the quantum law of large numbers. The second one clarifies the relation to channel capacity per unit cost for classical-quantum channels. Both proofs lead to generalization of the conjecture.
47|Intelligent location of simultaneously active acoustic emission sources:   Part I|T. Kosel and I. Grabec|The intelligent acoustic emission locator is described in Part I, while Part II discusses blind source separation, time delay estimation and location of two simultaneously active continuous acoustic emission sources.   The location of acoustic emission on complicated aircraft frame structures is a difficult problem of non-destructive testing. This article describes an intelligent acoustic emission source locator. The intelligent locator comprises a sensor antenna and a general regression neural network, which solves the location problem based on learning from examples. Locator performance was tested on different test specimens. Tests have shown that the accuracy of location depends on sound velocity and attenuation in the specimen, the dimensions of the tested area, and the properties of stored data. The location accuracy achieved by the intelligent locator is comparable to that obtained by the conventional triangulation method, while the applicability of the intelligent locator is more general since analysis of sonic ray paths is avoided. This is a promising method for non-destructive testing of aircraft frame structures by the acoustic emission method.
48|Inference on white dwarf binary systems using the first round Mock LISA   Data Challenges data sets|Alexander Stroeer, John Veitch, Christian Roever, Ed Bloomer, James   Clark, Nelson Christensen, Martin Hendry, Chris Messenger, Renate Meyer,   Matthew Pitkin, Jennifer Toher, Richard Umstaetter, Alberto Vecchio and   Graham Woan|We report on the analysis of selected single source data sets from the first round of the Mock LISA Data Challenges (MLDC) for white dwarf binaries. We implemented an end-to-end pipeline consisting of a grid-based coherent pre-processing unit for signal detection, and an automatic Markov Chain Monte Carlo post-processing unit for signal evaluation. We demonstrate that signal detection with our coherent approach is secure and accurate, and is increased in accuracy and supplemented with additional information on the signal parameters by our Markov Chain Monte Carlo approach. We also demonstrate that the Markov Chain Monte Carlo routine is additionally able to determine accurately the noise level in the frequency window of interest.
49|An algorithm for the classification of smooth Fano polytopes|Mikkel {\O}bro|We present an algorithm that produces the classification list of smooth Fano d-polytopes for any given d. The input of the algorithm is a single number, namely the positive integer d. The algorithm has been used to classify smooth Fano d-polytopes for d<=7. There are 7622 isomorphism classes of smooth Fano 6-polytopes and 72256 isomorphism classes of smooth Fano 7-polytopes.
50|Intelligent location of simultaneously active acoustic emission sources:   Part II|T. Kosel and I. Grabec|Part I describes an intelligent acoustic emission locator, while Part II discusses blind source separation, time delay estimation and location of two continuous acoustic emission sources.   Acoustic emission (AE) analysis is used for characterization and location of developing defects in materials. AE sources often generate a mixture of various statistically independent signals. A difficult problem of AE analysis is separation and characterization of signal components when the signals from various sources and the mode of mixing are unknown. Recently, blind source separation (BSS) by independent component analysis (ICA) has been used to solve these problems. The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate the applicability of ICA to locate two independent simultaneously active acoustic emission sources on an aluminum band specimen. The method is promising for non-destructive testing of aircraft frame structures by acoustic emission analysis.
